# LIS2407FinalProject
## Introduction and Collection Overview

The concept for our collection originated out of the TV show Black Sails, which portrays the life and adventures of pirates in the Caribbean during the 18th century. The show serves as a prequel to the Robert Louis Stevenson novel Treasure Island and also includes real historical such as Anne Bonny, Calico Jack Rackham, and Charles Vane. Realizing that the show specifically is somewhat of a narrow topic, we are going to look at how history and piracy is portrayed in popular culture, but use Black Sails as an example collection. The audience that we are focusing on are those who are interested in the way history is seen in modern times, those who want to learn about the history of pirates, and researchers interested in how history (in this collection’s case the Golden Age of Piracy) is represented in popular culture. Fans of the show or of *Treasure Island* are also potential groups of researchers. Our collection will contain many formats: DVD sets of the show, books, a map, prints, pamphlets, and some physical objects. 

All of the paper materials (maps, prints, pamphlets, and books) are digitized and can be accessed by researchers online. For researchers who come into the archives, copies of fragile first edition materials should be made. Originals should only be used if first-hand experience with them is imperative for research purposes. DVD sets can be checked out by researchers, who can also be directed to the many buying options for digital versions. The objects in the collection are the only ones that must be viewed in person, although professional pictures can be shared online. How materials are shared and promoted online would depend on the capability of the archive holding the collection. However, finding aids for the collection could be published online or part of the archive’s website devoted to this specific collection. The  kinds of metadata that we determined were important to include for this collection werr: title, identifier, date, creator(s), rights, type, type of resource, physical description, subject, description, and relation. Many of these are self-explanatory, as they provide basic information about the object. The “rights” field was created due to the mainstream media objects (the four seasons of Black Sails) included in our collection. We made sure the records for each object in this collection have a clear statement of rights surrounding these objects so as to not get caught up in any litigation. The “description” and “relation” fields were included so that more detailed information about the objects could be given and so that one object's relationship to other objects in the collection, which played a central part in the decision making process of what to include with this collection, can be shared with researchers. A librarian or archivist of the institution holding this collection would need to be familiar with general history of the Golden Age of Piracy, representation of it within popular culture, and the connections between the various objects within the collection. 

The first four items in our collection are DVD sets of the four seasons of Black Sails. As this facet of our collection revolves around the show, and we want our collection to be accessible to many (not just those who had already seen the show), it was necessary to include the seasons of it within the collection. In addition to the episodes, each season has behind the scenes features that discuss the history and lore in the show and production elements, such as costumes and sets. Due to the fact that the cast, crew, years, and places of production change in some way from season to season, and the fact that there is currently no option to buy all four seasons in one package, each season is its own individual object. The fifth item in our collection is a first edition, illustrated copy of Robert Louis Stevenson’s Treasure Island. This book served as inspiration and source material for Black Sails and is a well-known example of piracy in pop culture in its own right. The sixth item in our collection is a first edition copy of the 1724 book A General History of the Pyrates by Captain Charles Johnson (although this was probably a pseudonym). This book is one of the few primary sources on pirates still in existence, and also served as inspiration for Stevenson’s Treasure Island. The final book(s) in our collection, and our seventh item, is a four volume book series titled British Piracy in the Golden Age: History and Interpretation 1660-1730, which gives a historical overview of the Golden Age of Piracy and includes information on the various real life figures portrayed in Black Sails. 

The next four items in our collection are all primary sources. The first, and our eighth item, is a pamphlet titled “The Tryals of Jack Rackham and Other Pirates…” which offers a first-hand account of the trials of “Calico Jack” Rackham, who is a central character in Black Sails, and other members of his crew. The ninth item in our collection is another trial pamphlet/book, “Articles exhibited against Lord Archibald Hamilton, late governour of Jamaica: with sundry depositions and proofs relating to the same.” The pamphlet includes depositions accusing Hamilton of encouraging piracy. Hamilton also makes an appearance in Black Sails (while a more minor character, he is important to some major plot points) and appears staunchly anti-pirate, interesting considering the accusations in the pamphlet. Items 10 and 11 in our collection are both renderings of famous pirates, made in the 1700s, Anne Bonny and Charles Vane. Both of these pirates are central characters in Black Sails as well as important historical figures in the Golden Age of Piracy. Our 12th item is “A map of the West-Indies or the islands of America in the North Sea” dated at 1732. This map shows a historical rendering of the West-Indies and surrounding continents and islands including Providence I (now New Providence). Located in Providence I is Nassau, where the majority of land scenes in Black Sails takes place.  The final two items in our collection are objects. The first, and our 13th item, is a replica of the Jolly Roger (the name given to pirate colors) flow by Calico Jack. This rendering of a skull and crossbones is perhaps the most famous Jolly Roger, and has made a large mark in popular culture. Our final object is a collection of shipwreck pirate coins from the 1700s, including: gold doubloons, silver dollars, and pieces of eight. Pirate treasure is an important part of the representation of pirates in popular culture, and the central plot of Black Sails (and Treasure Island) is the capture of the contents of the Spanish treasure galleon the Urca de Lima. 

List of Objects in the Collection:
* Black Sails Season 1
* Black Sails Season 2
* Black Sails Season 3
* Black Sails Season 4
* First edition of *Treasure Island* by Robert Louis Stevenson
* First edition pamphlet of “The Tryals of Captain Jack Rackam and other PIrates…” 
* *British Piracy in the Golden Age: History and Interpretation 1660-1730*
* "A map of the West-Indies or the islands of America in the North Sea" from 1732
* Print of "Anne Bonney with axe and unsheathed cutlass"
* Print of "Captain Charles Vane"
* Jolly Roger (flag) flown by Calico Jack
* First edition pamphlet of “Articles exhibited against Lord Archibald Hamilton, late governour of Jamaica : with sundry depositions and proofs relating to the same”
* Pirate coins
